README.md, before:

Lemon is an invite-only ShareX uploader with private galleries. It runs on
Next.js, MongoDB (Mongoose), and Vercel Blob storage.

## Getting Started

Install dependencies, then run the development server:

```bash
npm install
npm run dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

## Environment

Create a `.env.local` with:

```bash
MONGODB_URI="mongodb+srv://..."
BLOB_READ_WRITE_TOKEN="vercel_blob_token"
```

## Admin access

Set the first admin manually in MongoDB by changing the `role` field:

- `role: 1` = admin
- `role: 0` = normal user
- `role: -1` = banned

Admins can generate invite codes from `/admin/invites`.

## ShareX setup

- Upload URL: `https://your-domain.com/api/upload`
- Header name: `X-Upload-Key`
- Header value: your upload key from the dashboard

Uploads inherit the user’s default visibility setting.

## Notes

- Max upload size is 4.5MB.
- Private files are served through `/api/media/:id/download`.
- Vercel Blob objects are public by design; Lemon keeps private uploads unlisted
  and only serves them through authenticated routes.

## Learn More

To learn more about Next.js, take a look at the following resources:

- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs) - learn about Next.js features and API.
- [Learn Next.js](https://nextjs.org/learn) - an interactive Next.js tutorial.

You can check out [the Next.js GitHub repository](https://github.com/vercel/next.js) - your feedback and contributions are welcome!

## Deploy on Vercel

The easiest way to deploy your Next.js app is to use the [Vercel Platform](https://vercel.com/new?utm_medium=default-template&filter=next.js&utm_source=create-next-app&utm_campaign=create-next-app-readme) from the creators of Next.js.

Check out our [Next.js deployment documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/deploying) for more details.

Commit message:

Add security enhancements and rate limiting to API routes
Introduces a new lib/security.ts module providing rate limiting, origin checks, and input validation utilities. Applies rate limiting and origin validation to sensitive API endpoints (auth, registration, media, upload, user settings, etc.), improves password validation, and ensures cache-control headers are set to prevent sensitive data caching. Updates README to document APP_ORIGIN usage and clarifies file serving behavior. Also adds stricter filename and ObjectId validation throughout the codebase.

README.md, after:

Lemon is an invite-only ShareX uploader with private galleries. It runs on
Next.js, MongoDB (Mongoose), and Vercel Blob storage.

## Getting Started

Install dependencies, then run the development server:

```bash
npm install
npm run dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

## Environment

Create a `.env.local` with:

```bash
MONGODB_URI="mongodb+srv://..."
BLOB_READ_WRITE_TOKEN="vercel_blob_token"
APP_ORIGIN="https://your-domain.com"
```

## Admin access

Set the first admin manually in MongoDB by changing the `role` field:

- `role: 1` = admin
- `role: 0` = normal user
- `role: -1` = banned

Admins can generate invite codes from `/admin/invites`.

## ShareX setup

- Upload URL: `https://your-domain.com/api/upload`
- Header name: `X-Upload-Key`
- Header value: your upload key from the dashboard

Uploads inherit the user’s default visibility setting.

## Notes

- Max upload size is 4.5MB.
- `APP_ORIGIN` is optional but recommended to avoid trusting the Host header.
- Vercel Blob objects are public; Lemon keeps private uploads unlisted
  and only serves them through `/api/media/:id/download`.

## Learn More

To learn more about Next.js, take a look at the following resources:

- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs) - learn about Next.js features and API.
- [Learn Next.js](https://nextjs.org/learn) - an interactive Next.js tutorial.

You can check out [the Next.js GitHub repository](https://github.com/vercel/next.js) - your feedback and contributions are welcome!

## Deploy on Vercel

The easiest way to deploy your Next.js app is to use the [Vercel Platform](https://vercel.com/new?utm_medium=default-template&filter=next.js&utm_source=create-next-app&utm_campaign=create-next-app-readme) from the creators of Next.js.

Check out our [Next.js deployment documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/deploying) for more details.
